Hi, my name's Tim Roughgarden.
I'm a professor here at Stanford
University.
And I'd like to welcome you to this first
course on the Design and Analysis of
Algorithms.
Now, I imagine many of you are already
clear on your reasons for taking this
course.
But let me begin by justifying this
course's existence.
And giving you some reasons why you
should be highly motivated to learn about
algorithms.
So what is an algorithm anyways?
Basically it's a set of well defined
rules, a recipe in effect for solving
some computational problem.
Maybe you have a bunch of numbers and you
want to rearrange them so that they're in
sorted order.
Maybe you have a roadmap and an origin
and a destination And you want to compute
the shortest path from that origin to
that destination.
May be you face a number of different
tasks that need to be completed by
certain deadlines and you ant to know in
what order you should accomplish the
task.
So that you complete them all by their
respective deadlines.
So why study algorithms?
Well first of all, understanding the
basics of algorithms and the related
field of data structures is essential for
doing serious work in pretty much any
branch of computer science.
This is the reason why here at Stanford,
this course is required for every single
degree that the department offers.
The bachelors degree the masters degree
and also the PHD.
To give you a few examples routing and
communication networks piggybacks on
classical shortest path algorithms.
The effectiveness of public key
cryptography relies on that of
number-theoretic algorithms.
Computer graphics needs the computational
primitives supplied by geometric
algorithms.
Database indices rely on balanced search
tree data structures.
Computational biology uses dynamic
programming algorithms to measure genome
similarity.
And the list goes on.
Second, algorithms play a key role in
modern technological innovation.
To give just one obvious example, search
engines use a tapestry of algorithms to
efficiently compute the relevance of
various webpages to it's given search
query.
The most famous such algorithm is the
page rank algorithm currently in use by
Google.
Indeed in a December 2010 report to the
United States White House, the
President's counsel of advisers on
science and technology argued that in
many areas performance gains due to
improvements in algorithms have vastly
exceeded event he dramatic performance
gains due to increased processor speeds.
Third, although this is outside of the
score, the scope of this course.
Algorithms are increasingly being used to
provide a novel lens on processes outside
of computer science and technology.
For example, the study of quantum
computation has provided a new
Computational viewpoint on quantum
mechanics.
Price fluctuations in economic markets
can be fruitfully viewed as an algorthmic
process and even evolution can be
usefully thought of as a surprisingly
effect search algorthim.
The last two reasons for studying
algorthims might sound flippant but both
have more than a grain of truth to them.
I don't know about you, but back when I
was a student, my favorite classes were
always the challenging ones that, after I
struggled through them, left me feeling a
few IQ points smarter than when I
started.
I hope this course provides a similar
experience for many of you.
Finally, I hope that by the end of the
course I'll have converted some of you to
agree with me that the design and
analysis of algorithms is simply fun.
It's an endeavor that requires a rare
blend of precision and creativity.
It can certainly be frustrating at times,
but it's also highly addictive.
So let's descend from these lofty
generalities and get much more concrete.
And let's remember that we've all been
learning about and using algorithims
since we were little kids.